Mark --

We would like to express interest in submitting an article to the MT
Journal special issue on MT automated metrics.

The subject of the paper is:

  Expected Dependency Pair Match:
  Predicting improvements to HTER with expected syntactic structure 

  Jeremy G. Kahn and Mari Ostendorf  [but see NOTE]

***** PRELIMINARY ABSTRACT *****

This work uses English-language syntactic structure as a tool for
measuring similarity, by introducing a new measure, Expected
Dependency Pair Match (EDPM), which:

  * uses a probabilistic syntactic parser (the first stage of Charniak &
    Johnson 2005) annotates both hypothesis and reference, deferring
    to the parse-structure to identify words along with inbound and
    outbound dependency links

  * uses an expectation over parse structures to improve the
    parse-structure's identification of these dependency tuples,
    rather than using a single parse or an evenly-weighted list (as a
    previous approach [Owczarzak et al. 2007] based on the LFG parser
    did),

  * takes an F-measure over these small syntactically-labeled
    dependency tuples (as well as unigrams and bigrams), weighting
    "syntactically-key" words more heavily (through more inbound links).

In evaluation, we compare the performance of this measure to other
popular automatic measures (BLEU and TER).  In automated evaluation,
one major concern is to identify differences between two relatively
good candidate translations of the same source unit; thus we evaluate
these measures' success at predicting improvements in HTER (rather
than correlations among absolute HTER).  This improvement is measured
by comparing differences in HTER among the three submitted GALE 2.5
[DARPA 2008] translations of each document.  Score-differences in each
of the candidate measures are correlated with score-differences in
HTER.

We find that (delta) EDPM is nearly always at least as well-correlated
to (delta) HTER as are competitor measures in all four genres and both
source languages under consideration. In many cases, EDPM's
correlation with HTER is the strongest, especially in the translation
of spoken documents.

******
NOTE:

If time permits, we would like to include experiments comparing EDPM to
TERp, in which case Matthew Snover would be included as a
co-author. Preliminary experiments suggest that the two measures,
which represent two rather different approaches, may have
complementary strengths and weaknesses.
